Application reviewer help documentation
=======================================

This is documentation for service administrators for the Provider
Screening Module. Usually these are state/territory Medicaid agency staffers.

How do I use the application verification process?
--------------------------------------------------

Verification is checking an application with federal or state/territory data
sources and visually inspecting the license(s) or certification(s) in a
submitted application.

Click "Applications" in the navigation bar and go to the "Pending" tab.
Click the "Review" link for the application you want to verify. You'll
see a list of things that you want to verify about the pending
application before approving it. Under "Auto Screening", click "View" or
"View Log" to see the "External Source Screening Log," which will tell
you whether the PSM has been able to automatically verify each piece of
application data with an external information source. If you are
satisfied with that result, or if you go to the government database
yourself and manually verify that piece of the application, click the
"Verified" checkbox for that row.

Check the Provider Information:

-  Is this provider on the `List of Excluded Individuals and Entities
   provided by the Office of the Inspector General for the US Department
   of Health and Human
   Services <https://oig.hhs.gov/exclusions/exclusions_list.asp>`__? If
   so, you should reject the application.

Check the License Information (more details below). Look at the files to
see whether they are legitimate licenses or certifications, and (if
applicable) check with the issuing board or authority to validate the
license. Go back to the list of pending applications and click the
NPI/UMPI number to view the application details, and look at the License
Info tab. Confirm that the issue and renewal end dates in the image are
the same as in the application. If you see any discrepancies, you should
reject the application.

At the bottom of the screen, choose "Reject" or "Approve" as
appropriate.

Future verification processes will be increasingly automated.

How do I look at and change the risk assessment rules?
------------------------------------------------------

Right now that's not something you can do in the PSM, but it'll be
possible in a future version. For the moment, speak with your internal
IT team. You can also refer to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services' rules, and to the
`regulations <https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/42/424.518>`__ they
implement.

What's the difference between an agreement and an addendum?
-----------------------------------------------------------

Both agreements and addenda are documents meant for the "Provider
Statement" step in the application process; they are where you place
legal terms and conditions for providers to sign. They are identical in
format: each agreement and each addendum has a title and content. You
can format and style the format of the content.

You should create a few agreements to cover the major types of providers
in your program, and then use special provider-specific addenda for
additional statements that providers need to sign.

Where do I create, edit, or delete agreements and addenda?
----------------------------------------------------------

Click on "Functions" in the navigation bar, and look at the "Agreements
& Addendums" tab. There, you can create or edit agreements and addenda.

You cannot delete an agreement or an addendum.

Where do I create, edit, or delete a provider type?
---------------------------------------------------

Click on "Functions" in the navigation bar, and look at the "Provider
Types" tab. Each provider type has a name and zero or more agreements or
addenda. You can edit a provider type to change its name and to add or
remove an agreement or addendum.

You cannot create or delete a provider type.
